sources/shiboken2/ApiExtractor/doc/typesystem_arguments.rst, before:

.. _modifying-arguments:

Modifying Arguments
-------------------

.. _conversion-rule:

conversion-rule
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The conversion-rule node allows you to write customized code to convert
    the given argument between the target language and C++, and it is a child of the modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument ...>
        <conversion-rule class="target | native">
            // the code
        </conversion-rule>
        </modify-argument>

    This node is typically used in combination with the replace-type and
    remove-argument nodes. The given code is used instead of the generator's
    conversion code.

    Writing %N in the code (where N is a number), will insert the name of the
    nth argument. Alternatively, %in and %out which will be replaced with the
    name of the conversion's input and output variable, respectively. Note the
    output variable must be declared explicitly, for example:

    .. code-block:: xml

        <conversion-rule class="native">
        bool %out = (bool) %in;
        </conversion-rule>

    .. note:: You can also use the conversion-rule node to specify :ref:`a conversion code which will be used instead of the generator's conversion code everywhere for a given type <conversion-rule-on-types>`.

remove-argument
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The remove-argument node removes the given argument from the function's
    signature, and it is a child of the modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

     <modify-argument>
         <remove-argument />
     </modify-argument>

rename to
^^^^^^^^^

    The 'rename to' node is used to rename a argument and use this new name in the generated code.

    .. code-block:: xml

     <modify-argument>
         <rename to='...' />
     </modify-argument>


remove-default-expression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The remove-default-expression node disables the use of the default expression
    for the given argument, and it is a child of the modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument...>
             <remove-default-expression />
         </modify-argument>

replace-default-expression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The replace-default-expression node replaces the specified argument with the
    expression specified by the ``with`` attribute, and it is a child of the
    modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument>
             <replace-default-expression with="..." />
         </modify-argument>


replace-type
^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The replace-type node replaces the type of the given argument to the one
    specified by the ``modified-type`` attribute, and it is a child of the
    modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument>
             <replace-type modified-type="..." />
         </modify-argument>

    If the new type is a class, the ``modified-type`` attribute must be set to
    the fully qualified name (including name of the package as well as the class
    name).

define-ownership
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The define-ownership tag indicates that the function changes the ownership
    rules of the argument object. The ``class`` attribute specifies the class of
    function where to inject the ownership altering code. The ``owner`` attribute
    specifies the new ownership of the object. It accepts the following values:

        * target: the target language will assume full ownership of the object.
                  The native resources will be deleted when the target language
                  object is finalized.
        * c++: The native code assumes full ownership of the object. The target
               language object will not be garbage collected.
        * default: The object will get default ownership, depending on how it
                   was created.

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument>
              <define-ownership class="target | native"
                                owner="target | c++ | default" />
        </modify-argument>


reference-count
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The reference-count tag dictates how an argument should be handled by the
    target language reference counting system (if there is any), it also indicates
    the kind of relationship the class owning the function being modified has with
    the argument. For instance, in a model/view relation a view receiving a model
    as argument for a **setModel** method should increment the model's reference
    counting, since the model should be kept alive as much as the view lives.
    Remember that out hypothetical view could not become parent of the model,
    since the said model could be used by other views as well.
    The ``action`` attribute specifies what should be done to the argument
    reference counting when the modified method is called. It accepts the
    following values:

        * add: increments the argument reference counter.
        * add-all: increments the reference counter for each item in a collection.
        * remove: decrements the argument reference counter.
        * set: will assign the argument to the variable containing the reference.
        * ignore: does nothing with the argument reference counter
                  (sounds worthless, but could be used in situations
                   where the reference counter increase is mandatory
                   by default).

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument>
              <reference-count action="add|add-all|remove|set|ignore" variable-name="..." />
        </modify-argument>


    The variable-name attribute specifies the name used for the variable that
    holds the reference(s).


replace-value
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The ``replace-value`` attribute lets you replace the return statement of a
    function with a fixed string. This attribute can only be used for the
    argument at ``index`` 0, which is always the function's return value.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument index="0" replace-value="this"/>


parent
^^^^^^

    The parent node lets you define the argument parent which will
    take ownership of argument and will destroy the C++ child object when the
    parent is destroyed.

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument index="1">
              <parent index="this" action="add | remove" />
        </modify-argument>

    In the ``index`` argument you must specify the parent argument. The action
    *add* creates a parent link between objects, while *remove* will undo the
    parentage relationship.

Commit message:

Add references from ApiExtractor to shiboken doc
Including intersphinx extension allow us to link
the documentation from ApiExtractor to shiboken's.

ApiExtractor doc need to be build first, so we can
use the inventory that sphinx create, to link it
to shiboken's configuration.

All the harcoded references were replaced by dynamic
references. Also new labels were included to properly
cross reference topics.

Checked the spell on many rst files too.

Task-number: PYSIDE-363
Change-Id: I11a50b1f9eee48a00a3de6f957942eb0823eba47
Reviewed-by: Alexandru Croitor <alexandru.croitor@qt.io>

sources/shiboken2/ApiExtractor/doc/typesystem_arguments.rst, after:

.. _modifying-arguments:

Modifying Arguments
-------------------

.. _conversionrule:

conversion-rule
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The conversion-rule node allows you to write customized code to convert
    the given argument between the target language and C++, and it is a child of the modify-argument node:

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument index="2">
        <!-- for the second argument of the function -->
        <conversion-rule class="target | native">
            // the code
        </conversion-rule>
        </modify-argument>

    This node is typically used in combination with the replace-type and
    remove-argument nodes. The given code is used instead of the generator's
    conversion code.

    Writing %N in the code (where N is a number), will insert the name of the
    nth argument. Alternatively, %in and %out which will be replaced with the
    name of the conversion's input and output variable, respectively. Note the
    output variable must be declared explicitly, for example:

    .. code-block:: xml

        <conversion-rule class="native">
        bool %out = (bool) %in;
        </conversion-rule>

    .. note:: You can also use the conversion-rule node to specify :ref:`a conversion code which will be used instead of the generator's conversion code everywhere for a given type <conversion-rule-on-types>`.

.. _remove-argument:

remove-argument
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The remove-argument node removes the given argument from the function's
    signature, and it is a child of the modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

     <modify-argument>
         <remove-argument />
     </modify-argument>

.. _rename-to:

rename to
^^^^^^^^^

    The 'rename to' node is used to rename a argument and use this new name in the generated code.

    .. code-block:: xml

     <modify-argument>
         <rename to='...' />
     </modify-argument>

.. _remove-default-expression:

remove-default-expression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The remove-default-expression node disables the use of the default expression
    for the given argument, and it is a child of the modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument...>
             <remove-default-expression />
         </modify-argument>

.. _replace-default-expression:

replace-default-expression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The replace-default-expression node replaces the specified argument with the
    expression specified by the ``with`` attribute, and it is a child of the
    modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument>
             <replace-default-expression with="..." />
         </modify-argument>

.. _replace-type:

replace-type
^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The replace-type node replaces the type of the given argument to the one
    specified by the ``modified-type`` attribute, and it is a child of the
    modify-argument node.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument>
             <replace-type modified-type="..." />
         </modify-argument>

    If the new type is a class, the ``modified-type`` attribute must be set to
    the fully qualified name (including name of the package as well as the class
    name).

.. _define-ownership:

define-ownership
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The define-ownership tag indicates that the function changes the ownership
    rules of the argument object. The ``class`` attribute specifies the class of
    function where to inject the ownership altering code. The ``owner`` attribute
    specifies the new ownership of the object. It accepts the following values:

        * target: the target language will assume full ownership of the object.
                  The native resources will be deleted when the target language
                  object is finalized.
        * c++: The native code assumes full ownership of the object. The target
               language object will not be garbage collected.
        * default: The object will get default ownership, depending on how it
                   was created.

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument>
              <define-ownership class="target | native"
                                owner="target | c++ | default" />
        </modify-argument>

.. _reference-count:

reference-count
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The reference-count tag dictates how an argument should be handled by the
    target language reference counting system (if there is any), it also indicates
    the kind of relationship the class owning the function being modified has with
    the argument. For instance, in a model/view relation a view receiving a model
    as argument for a **setModel** method should increment the model's reference
    counting, since the model should be kept alive as much as the view lives.
    Remember that out hypothetical view could not become parent of the model,
    since the said model could be used by other views as well.
    The ``action`` attribute specifies what should be done to the argument
    reference counting when the modified method is called. It accepts the
    following values:

        * add: increments the argument reference counter.
        * add-all: increments the reference counter for each item in a collection.
        * remove: decrements the argument reference counter.
        * set: will assign the argument to the variable containing the reference.
        * ignore: does nothing with the argument reference counter
                  (sounds worthless, but could be used in situations
                   where the reference counter increase is mandatory
                   by default).

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument>
              <reference-count action="add|add-all|remove|set|ignore" variable-name="..." />
        </modify-argument>


    The variable-name attribute specifies the name used for the variable that
    holds the reference(s).

.. _replace-value:

replace-value
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    The ``replace-value`` attribute lets you replace the return statement of a
    function with a fixed string. This attribute can only be used for the
    argument at ``index`` 0, which is always the function's return value.

    .. code-block:: xml

         <modify-argument index="0" replace-value="this"/>

.. _parent:

parent
^^^^^^

    The parent node lets you define the argument parent which will
    take ownership of argument and will destroy the C++ child object when the
    parent is destroyed.

    .. code-block:: xml

        <modify-argument index="1">
              <parent index="this" action="add | remove" />
        </modify-argument>

    In the ``index`` argument you must specify the parent argument. The action
    *add* creates a parent link between objects, while *remove* will undo the
    parentage relationship.
