sources/pyside2/doc/tutorials/qmltutorial/step3.rst, before:

.. _qmlstatesandtransitions:

QML Tutorial 3 - States and Transitions
***************************************

In this chapter, we make this example a little bit more dynamic by introducing states and transitions.

We want our text to move to the bottom of the screen, rotate and become red when clicked.

.. figure:: declarative-tutorial3_animation.gif
    :align: center

Here is the QML code:

.. pysideinclude:: helloworld/tutorial3.qml
    :snippet: 0

Walkthrough
===========

.. pysideinclude:: helloworld/tutorial3.qml
    :snippet: 2

First, we create a new *down* state for our text element.
This state will be activated when the MouseArea is pressed, and deactivated when it is released.

The *down* state includes a set of property changes from our implicit *default state*
(the items as they were initially defined in the QML).
Specifically, we set the ``y`` property of the text to ``160``, the rotation to ``180`` and the ``color`` to red.

.. pysideinclude:: helloworld/tutorial3.qml
    :snippet: 3

Because we don't want the text to appear at the bottom instantly but rather move smoothly,
we add a transition between our two states.

``from`` and ``to`` define the states between which the transition will run.
In this case, we want a transition from the default state to our *down* state.

Because we want the same transition to be run in reverse when changing back from the *down* state to the default state,
we set ``reversible`` to ``true``.
This is equivalent to writing the two transitions separately.

The ParallelAnimation element makes sure that the two types of animations (number and color) start at the same time.
We could also run them one after the other by using SequentialAnimation instead.

[Previous :ref:`qmlcomponents`]

Commit message:

Doc: Adapt QML basics tutorial for Qt Quick 2
- Update the helloworld example to use Qt Quick 2 import
- Use second person style consistently in the tutorial set

Task-number: PYSIDE-363
Change-Id: Ia2b6636e850433bd69e5d6b4fb36faa1cb7b0edb
Reviewed-by: Cristian Maureira-Fredes <cristian.maureira-fredes@qt.io>
Reviewed-by: Friedemann Kleint <Friedemann.Kleint@qt.io>

sources/pyside2/doc/tutorials/qmltutorial/step3.rst, after:

.. _qmlstatesandtransitions:

QML Tutorial 3 - States and Transitions
***************************************

In this chapter, you are guided through the steps to make the example a little more dynamic by
introducing states and transitions. For example, moving the text to the bottom of the screen,
rotate, and change its color when clicked.

.. figure:: declarative-tutorial3_animation.gif
    :align: center

Here is the QML code for such a behavior:

.. pysideinclude:: helloworld/tutorial3.qml
    :snippet: 0

Walkthrough
===========

.. pysideinclude:: helloworld/tutorial3.qml
    :snippet: 2

First, create a new *down* state for the text element.
Pressing the MouseArea activates this new state and releasing it deactivates the state.

The *down* state includes a set of property changes from the implicit *default state*
(the items as they were initially defined in the QML).
Specifically, set the ``y`` property of the text to ``160``, rotation to ``180``, and ``color`` to red.

.. pysideinclude:: helloworld/tutorial3.qml
    :snippet: 3

To make the application even better, add a transiton between the two states so that switching between these
two states look smooth and nice.

The ``from`` and ``to`` properties of the Transition element define the states between which the transition will run.
In this case, you want a transition from the default state to the *down* state.

To have a similar transition effect when changing back from the *down* state to the default state,
set the ``reversible`` property to ``true``. This is equivalent to writing two transitions.

The ParallelAnimation element makes sure that the two types of animations (number and color) start at the same time.
You could also run them one after the other by using SequentialAnimation instead.

[Previous :ref:`qmlcomponents`]
