sources/shiboken2/doc/faq.rst, before:

**************************
Frequently Asked Questions
**************************

This is a list of Frequently Asked Questions about |project|.  Feel free to
suggest new entries!

General
=======

What is Shiboken?
-----------------

Shiboken is a `GeneratorRunner <http://www.pyside.org/home-binding/binding-generator>`_
plugin that outputs C++ code for CPython extensions. The first version of PySide
had source code based on Boost templates. It was easier to produce code but a
paradigm change was needed, as the next question explains.

Why did you switch from Boost.Python to Shiboken?
-------------------------------------------------

The main reason was the size reduction. Boost.Python makes excessive use of templates
resulting in a significant increase of the binaries size. On the other hand, as Shiboken
generates CPython code, the resulting binaries are smaller.

Creating bindings
=================

Can I wrap non-Qt libraries?
----------------------------

Yes. Check Shiboken source code for an example (libsample).


Is there any runtime dependency on the generated binding?
---------------------------------------------------------

Yes. Only libshiboken, and the obvious Python interpreter
and the C++ library that is being wrapped.

What do I have to do to create my bindings?
-------------------------------------------

.. todo: put link to typesystem documentation

Most of the work is already done by the API Extractor. The developer creates
a `typesystem <http://www.pyside.org/docs/apiextractor/typesystem.html>`_ file
with any customization wanted in the generated code, like removing classes or
changing method signatures. The generator will output the .h and .cpp files
with the CPython code that will wrap the target library for python.

Is there any recommended build system?
--------------------------------------

Both API Extractor and generator uses and recommends the CMake build system.

Can I write closed-source bindings with the generator?
------------------------------------------------------

Yes, as long as you use a LGPL version of Qt, due to runtime requirements.

What is 'inject code'?
----------------------

That's how we call customized code that will be *injected* into the
generated at specific locations. They are specified inside the typesytem.

Commit message:

Upgrade shiboken diagrams and documentation
Applied Qt-style to the diagrams: shapes, and colors.
Removed references to Boost.
Move the .rst links to the bottom of the files for better
maintainability.
Removed unused images and wrapped a few long lines.
Aspell on the rst files.

The links needs to be updated once we have the URL for
the official documentation, since there are references
to external documentation source directories.

Task-number: PYSIDE-622
Change-Id: I2d553a29693ca4457e73a4ce5d78a2150501841d
Reviewed-by: Christian Tismer <tismer@stackless.com>

sources/shiboken2/doc/faq.rst, after:

**************************
Frequently Asked Questions
**************************

This is a list of Frequently Asked Questions about |project|.
Feel free to suggest new entries using our `Mailing list`_ or our IRC channel!

General
=======

What is Shiboken?
-----------------

Shiboken is a `GeneratorRunner`_ that outputs C++ code for CPython
extensions.
The first version of PySide had source code based on Boost templates.
It was easier to produce code but a paradigm change was needed, as the next
question explains.


Why did you switch from Boost.Python to Shiboken?
-------------------------------------------------

The main reason was the size reduction. Boost.Python makes excessive use of
templates resulting in a significant increase of the binaries size.
On the other hand, as Shiboken generates CPython code, the resulting binaries
are smaller.

Creating bindings
=================

Can I wrap non-Qt libraries?
----------------------------

Yes. Check Shiboken source code for an example (libsample).


Is there any runtime dependency on the generated binding?
---------------------------------------------------------

Yes. Only libshiboken, and the obvious Python interpreter
and the C++ library that is being wrapped.

What do I have to do to create my bindings?
-------------------------------------------

Most of the work is already done by the API Extractor.
The developer creates a `typesystem`_ file with any customization wanted in
the generated code, like removing classes or changing method signatures.
The generator will output the *.h* and *.cpp* files with the CPython code that
will wrap the target library for python.


Is there any recommended build system?
--------------------------------------

Both API Extractor and generator uses and recommends the CMake build system.

Can I write closed-source bindings with the generator?
------------------------------------------------------

Yes, as long as you use a LGPL version of Qt, due to runtime requirements.

What is 'inject code'?
----------------------

That's how we call customized code that will be *injected* into the
generated at specific locations. They are specified inside the typesystem.

.. _`Mailing list`:  http://lists.qt-project.org/mailman/listinfo/pyside
.. _`GeneratorRunner`:  http://www.pyside.org/home-binding/binding-generator
.. _`typesystem`:  http://www.pyside.org/docs/apiextractor/typesystem.html
