sources/pyside2/doc/tutorials/qmladvancedtutorial/index.rst, before:

.. _qmladvancedtutorial:

QML Advanced Tutorial
*********************

This tutorial walks step-by-step through the creation of a full application using QML.
It assumes that you already know the basics of QML (for example, from reading the
:ref:`qmltutorial`.

In this tutorial we write a game, *Same Game*, based on the Same Game application
included in the declarative demos directory, which looks like this:

.. figure:: declarative-samegame.png
    :align: center

We will cover concepts for producing a fully functioning application, including
JavaScript integration, using QML  States and Behaviors to
manage components and enhance your interface, and storing persistent application data.

An understanding of JavaScript is helpful to understand parts of this tutorial, but if you don't
know JavaScript you can still get a feel for how you can integrate backend logic to create and
control QML elements.

Tutorial chapters:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    samegame1.rst
    samegame2.rst
    samegame3.rst
    samegame4.rst

All the code in this tutorial can be found :download:`here <samegame.tar.bz2>`.

Commit message:

Doc: Update the QML advanced tutorial
- Switch the languague to 2nd person
- Update the Qt Quick import statements
- Replace instances of "elements" that referred to
  QML types or items.

Change-Id: Iabac624270dbd8685bf1f4d2dec198984e7a3c68
Reviewed-by: Paul Wicking <paul.wicking@qt.io>
Reviewed-by: Friedemann Kleint <Friedemann.Kleint@qt.io>

sources/pyside2/doc/tutorials/qmladvancedtutorial/index.rst, after:

.. _qmladvancedtutorial:

QML Advanced Tutorial
*********************

This tutorial walks you through the steps of creating an application using QML.
It assumes that you already know the basics of QML (for example, from reading the
:ref:`qmltutorial`.

In this tutorial, you will develop the game, *Same Game*. It is based on the
Same Game application included in the declarative demos directory, and looks
like this:

.. figure:: declarative-samegame.png
    :align: center

The tutorial covers concepts related to producing a fully functional application,
including JavaScript integration, using QML states and behaviors to manage
components and enhance your interface, and storing persistent application data.

Prior knowledge of JavaScript is useful to understand parts of this
tutorial, but if you don't know it, you can still get a feel of
integrating the backend logic that creates and controls QML items.

Tutorial chapters:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    samegame1.rst
    samegame2.rst
    samegame3.rst
    samegame4.rst

All the code in this tutorial can be found :download:`here <samegame.tar.bz2>`.
