sources/pyside2/doc/deployment.rst, before:

==========
Deployment
==========

Deploying or freezing an application is a crucial part of many Python projects.
Most large projects are not based on a single Python file, so
the distribution of these applications becomes more difficult.

The options for a project are:
 1. Sending a normal zip-file with the application's content.
 2. Building a proper `Python package (wheel) <https://packaging.python.org/>`_.
 3. Freezing the application in a single binary file, or into a directory.

For the **third** option, there are many available tools:
 * `fbs <https://build-system.fman.io/>`_,
 * `PyInstaller <https://www.pyinstaller.org/>`_,
 * `cx_Freeze <https://anthony-tuininga.github.io/cx_Freeze/>`_,
 * `py2exe <http://www.py2exe.org/>`_,
 * `py2app <https://py2app.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_,

Since |project| is a cross-platform framework,
we would like to focus on solutions that at least work on
the three major platform supported by Qt: Linux, macOS, and Windows.

The following table summarizes the above mentioned tools support:

===========   =======   =====   =====   =======
Name          License   Linux   macOS   Windows
===========   =======   =====   =====   =======
fbs           GPL       yes     yes     yes
PyInstaller   GPL       yes     yes     yes
cx_Freeze     MIT       yes     yes     yes
py2exe        MIT       no      no      yes
py2app        MIT       no      yes     no
===========   =======   =====   =====   =======

From the table we can see that only *fbs*, *cx_Freeze* and *PyInstaller*
meet our requirements.

All tools are command-line based, and it could become
a hard task to include more resources to your application, such as
images, icons, and meta-information, because you will need to create
special hooks or separate scripts to handle them.
Additionally, since this only
allows you to freeze your current application, you don't have
any mechanism to update your application.

To cover the update part, there is a tool built around PyInstaller
called `PyUpdater <https://www.pyupdater.org/>`_ which enables
a simple mechanism to ship applications updates.

On top of all these features, including also a nice interface
that allows the user to install the application step by step,
or even better, provide templates to create new projects to easily
freeze-them-up is something really beneficial for both developers
and end-users.
This is where `fbs <https://build-system.fman.io>`_ enters the
game, being based on PyInstaller, but including all the nice features
we previously mentioned.

Here you can find a set of tutorials on how to use the previously
described tools.

.. note:: Deployment is possible only in Qt for Python 5.12.2

.. toctree::
    :name: mastertoc
    :maxdepth: 2

    deployment-fbs.rst
    deployment-pyinstaller.rst
    deployment-cxfreeze.rst

Commit message:

Example: Move the SQL statements
Moving the SQL statements into separate variables
outside the scope of the 'init_db' function, improves
readability.

Change-Id: I716dfceef6dc343287afab17f74e8de7fae618c6
Reviewed-by: Cristian Maureira-Fredes <cristian.maureira-fredes@qt.io>
Reviewed-by: Paul Wicking <paul.wicking@qt.io>
Reviewed-by: Christian Tismer <tismer@stackless.com>

sources/pyside2/doc/deployment.rst, after:

==========
Deployment
==========

Deploying or freezing an application is a crucial part of many Python projects.
Most large projects are not based on a single Python file, so
the distribution of these applications becomes more difficult.

Here are a few distribution options that you could use:
 1. Sending a normal zip-file with the application's content.
 2. Building a proper `Python package (wheel) <https://packaging.python.org/>`_.
 3. Freezing the application into a single binary file or a directory.

If you choose the **third** option, consider using one of these tools:
 * `fbs <https://build-system.fman.io/>`_,
 * `PyInstaller <https://www.pyinstaller.org/>`_,
 * `cx_Freeze <https://anthony-tuininga.github.io/cx_Freeze/>`_,
 * `py2exe <http://www.py2exe.org/>`_,
 * `py2app <https://py2app.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_,

|project| is a cross-platform framework,
so we would like to focus on solutions that work on the three
major platforms supported by Qt: Linux, macOS, and Windows.
The following table summarizes the platform support for those packaging
tools:

===========   =======   =====   =====   =======
Name          License   Linux   macOS   Windows
===========   =======   =====   =====   =======
fbs           GPL       yes     yes     yes
PyInstaller   GPL       yes     yes     yes
cx_Freeze     MIT       yes     yes     yes
py2exe        MIT       no      no      yes
py2app        MIT       no      yes     no
===========   =======   =====   =====   =======

According to this table, only *fbs*, *cx_Freeze*, and *PyInstaller*
meets our cross-platform requirement.

As these are command-line tools, it could be hard to include
resources to your application, such as images, icons, and
meta-information. This means, you will need special hooks
or scripts to handle them before adding to the package.
In addition to this, these tools does not offer a mechanism
to update your application packages.

To create update packages, use the `PyUpdater <https://www.pyupdater.org/>`_,
which is built around PyInstaller.

The `fbs <https://build-system.fman.io>`_ tool offers a nice UI
that allows the user to install the application step-by-step.

Here you can find a set of tutorials on how to use the previously
described tools.

.. note:: Deployment is supported only from Qt for Python 5.12.2 and
later.

.. toctree::
    :name: mastertoc
    :maxdepth: 2

    deployment-fbs.rst
    deployment-pyinstaller.rst
    deployment-cxfreeze.rst
